Classic 2.0
Respondent Name 
This report is provided by:
Corexcel
201 Webster Building
3411 Silverside Road
Wilmington, DE 19810
Phone: 888-658-6641
www.corexcel.com

© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 2Overview
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Welcome! You’ve just completed the  first  step of DiSC® Classic.  You are now  on your way toward increased  
self-awareness and  personal  effectiveness.
Your report is organized into four main sections:
Section I  is devoted entirely to  you  and your  unique  behavioral style based on your responses to  DiSC 
Classic. First you will see  your DiSC Graph,  the  basis  of your feedback. Then, in  Stage 1, you will  learn  about 
your Highest  DiSC Dimension  and your tendencies, needs, preferred  environment, and strategies for 
effectiveness. In Stage 2 you’ll be able to explore your Intensity Index  to become  more  aware of your 
potential strengths and weaknesses. Stage 3  will  help you discover  how your D, i, S, and C dimensions 
combine to form  your unique Classical Profile  Pattern.
Section II  covers the  DiSC model and descriptions of the four DiSC Dimensions with corresponding 
tendencies, needs, preferred environments, and effectiveness strategies for each.
Section III  overviews all 15 Classical Profile Patterns.
Section IV  provides the scoring and data analysis behind your report.
As you  read  your report, please keep in  mind that no  dimension or  pattern in  DiSC Classic is better or worse 
than another  and there are no right or wrong  answers.  Rather, the  report shows  your unique responses to  
your environment. You may want to read your report through once, then  use a  pen or highlighter to  
customize the results by crossing out any statements that don’t apply and highlighting all those that do.
Now, let’s get started.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 3Your DiSC® Graph Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Below is your DiSC® Graph, which shows your  scores on each  of the DiSC dimensions based  on your 
responses. Each of  the following interpretation stages  is based on these scores. Read on to learn about your 
highest DiSC dimension(s), your  potential  strengths and weaknesses, and your  Classical Profile  Pattern.
3 6 3 5Segment
Number
AppraiserClassical
Pattern
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 4Stage I: Your Highest DiSC Dimension Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Respondent, your highest dimension(s) - based on your responses  to your perceptions of the environment 
and the amount  of control you feel you  have in that environment - is Influence (i). Read  the description of 
Influence and see how it fits  with the way you  see yourself. Then read about  the other  dimensions on page 14  
to become familiar  with them.
Influence (i)
Respondent, you  are  high in the Influence dimension.  As a result,  you are  likely to  be focused  on shaping  your 
environment by influencing or persuading  others.
Those who are strong in Influence (“high  i’s”) seek contact with all types of people and enjoy making 
favorable impressions. They often look for opportunities to generate  enthusiasm and gain  popularity.  People 
high in Influence accomplish  goals  through  others,  and  social recognition  is an important  factor in that 
equation. Their decision-making style is  more often than  not based  on “gut  feel” rather than  facts  and 
figures.
High i’s require freedom of expression and steer clear of too much detail or control.  Outside of the 
workplace, high i’s typically  enjoy participating  in group activities  where they can meet new people and 
cultivate a wide range of  friendships. They pride themselves on their ability  to articulate their ideas,  and they 
enjoy engaging others in conversation.
Being adept at dealing with people, high i’s can find  complementary skills in  those individuals who  are better 
at dealing  with tasks.  People high in Influence have little difficulty  pitching their ideas to others.  But it’s 
helpful if they  have others to  help them support their proposals  with facts  and data,  as well as to develop a  
systematic, logical approach that  will help them  stay on  task and  follow through once  the project gets going.
Those high in Influence  should strive to set priorities  and deadlines for  themselves, and be firm in  holding 
others accountable to shared deadlines. They  also  need to  focus  on making objective decisions. When 
managing others, high  i’s are sometimes concerned about respecting others’ freedoms and  may intentionally  
take a hands-off approach so  that individuals  have plenty of room  to create.  They may run the risk of being  
seen as unresponsive to their employees’ needs. It would  benefit them to take a  slightly  more proactive 
approach and offer realistic feedback as needed. It’s unlikely that such  an approach will adversely affect the 
good will  already established.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 5Stage II: Your Intensity  Index Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Each of us has a  set of  strengths  that make  us unique and valuable, and we like to be acknowledged for our 
strengths, as well as feel effective in  our environment.  However, any  strength, when used excessively or 
inappropriately, can be perceived as a weakness. Read over the highlighted words in  the four columns 
below. These  are  the  adjectives that describe  High, Medium, and Low behavior for each dimension. Then turn 
the page  to learn more  about  your Intensity Index and how you can become more aware of your potential 
strengths and  weaknesses.
D i S C
28   egocentric 28   enthusiastic 28  passive 28   perfectionist
27   direct 27   gregarious 27  patient 27   accurate
26   daring 26   persuasive 26  loyal 26   fact-finder
25   domineering 25   impulsive 25  predictable 25   diplomatic
24   demanding 24   emotional 24  team-person 24   systematic
23   forceful 23   self-promoting 23  serene 23   conventional
22   risk-taker 22   trusting 22  possessive 22   courteous
21   adventuresome 21   influential 21  complacent 21   careful
20   decisive 20   pleasant 20   inactive 20   restrained
19   inquisitive 19   sociable 19  relaxed 19   high standards
18   self-assured 18   generous 18  nondemonstrative 18   analytical
17   competitive 17   poised 17  deliberate 17   sensitive
16   quick 16   charming 16  amiable 16   mature
15   self-reliant 15   confident 15  stable 15   evasive
14   calculated  risk-taker 14   convincing 14  mobile 14   “own person”
13   self-critical 13   observing 13  outgoing 13   self-righteous
12   unassuming 12   discriminating 12  alert 12   opinionated
11   self-effacing 11   reflective 11  eager 11   persistent
10   realistic 10   factual 10  critical 10   independent
9     weighs pros  and cons 9     logical 9   discontented 9     rigid
8     meek 8     controlled 8    fidgety 8     firm
7     conservative 7     retiring 7    impetuous 7     stubborn
6     peaceful 6     suspicious 6    restless 6     arbitrary
5     mild 5     pessimistic 5    change-oriented 5     rebellious
4     quiet 4     aloof 4    fault-finding 4     defiant
3     unsure 3     withdrawn 3    spontaneous 3     obstinate
2     dependent 2     self-conscious 2    frustrated by  status quo 2     tactless
1     modest 1     reticent 1    active 1     sarcastic
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 6Stage II: Your Intensity  Index Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
On the next four pages are explanations of the words  that indicate your  level of intensity  for each DiSC® 
dimension.
D Dimension
People with your score on  the D Dimension may be generally described by the following  adjectives. Circle 
those that you see  as your strengths and highlight  potential areas of challenge.
Self-reliant: Embracing  this trait requires an affinity for independent thinking  and a fondness for going  it 
alone when  necessary. These habits can  produce  effective  solutions and hone leadership skills. On the other  
hand, excessive self-reliance  can  undo a team’s bonds and wreck camaraderie.
Calculated risk-taker: Wild speculation  is usually  not  for you.  In taking calculated  risks, you can help 
prevent disasters and minimize losses;  however, the downside  is that this tendency can stifle creativity and 
limit growth.
Self-critical: This means that introspection often  comes  easily for you, and you’re  not afraid to examine your 
flaws and shortcomings.  Such analysis can yield helpful insights that benefit  you and  your organization. Take 
care, however, that you do  not become overly  critical of yourself and cease to  participate, or  worse yet, 
project your  condemnation onto others.
Unassuming: Usually modest about your abilities,  you’re not  one to call  attention to yourself or seek 
recognition for your  accomplishments. This  is a  quality that others may appreciate when working with you 
because you’re not  "high maintenance." However,  it’s important to speak up every  now and then to let 
others know what you need  to be effective.
Self-effacing: Somewhat  reserved and low-key  in your manner, you may sometimes employ  wit to alleviate 
tension when you are  working  with others. Being too  laid-back has its  drawbacks,  though. It  can cause  others 
to not  take you seriously and cost  you respect among  your colleagues.
Realistic: When you keep your feet  firmly  planted  on the ground, you often filter out impractical ideas or 
bizarre suggestions, thus eliminating wasted effort.  However,  being too pragmatic can provoke  mediocrity or  
uninspired work.
Weighs pros and cons: Careful deliberation can  produce stellar results. By measuring benefits against their 
potential costs, you may  often pick the  best option. But using this skill to  excess can lead to indecision  and 
anxiety.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 7Stage II: Your Intensity  Index Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
i Dimension
People with your score on  the i Dimension  may be  generally described by the  following adjectives.  Circle  
those that you see  as your strengths and highlight  potential areas of challenge.
Emotional: You may generally feel things more  acutely than a  lot of people and  be willing  to talk openly  
about things, which can help others do the  same. When overused, however, emotional candor can make  
others feel uncomfortable or even upset,  because  they may feel that their boundaries have  been violated.
Self-promoting: This  means  that you  may inform others about yourself and  offer your expertise to the  group  
as often as possible. It is  a strength when used to  forge communications with others, who won't have  to dig 
for information from you. Be careful not to be conceited, though, because  people may start to tune  you out.
Trusting: Believing in others without hesitation is a refreshing trait,  especially when  working with those who 
are more  skeptical. Real trust is built  from positive  experiences. There's such  a thing as being too trusting,  
however, in which case you run the risk of  being  viewed  as naive.
Influential: The ability  to inspire others  and move  them to action is a quality  found in  effective  leaders. 
Having this skill means that  you can mentor individuals, or act  on their behalf when they  aren't able  to do so. 
However, it is important that you  also  see this as a responsibility to stay truthful  and accountable, so that 
others are not misled or misrepresented.
Pleasant: Being cheerful  and  agreeable are  traits that will allow you to fit in almost everywhere and 
contribute to a  shared goal. However,  if you never  share your real thoughts and opinions for fear of being 
disagreeable, you run the  risk of being perceived as wishy-washy or  lacking in substance.
Sociable: Not one to shy  away from lively  interaction with  others, you’re likely to  be found in the center  of 
activities with lots of ideas  to share. This  is welcome, especially with introverted types  who might need you 
to help them get comfortable  in groups. Being  sociable is not appropriate, however, when you need  to be 
deadline-oriented or the focus is strictly  on the task at hand.
Generous: In a work setting, this can  mean giving your time and energy without expecting something  in 
return. It’s an admirable trait that works well toward achieving a  common goal. But you need to conserve 
your time  and energy by saying “no”  when there are multiple projects and your name  is on all of them.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 8Stage II: Your Intensity  Index Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
S Dimension
People with your score on  the S  Dimension may be generally described by the  following adjectives. Circle  
those that you see  as your strengths and highlight  potential areas of challenge.
Outgoing: Being an extrovert can  open doors and keep you in  the  good graces  of colleagues. It can also 
promote a friendly and nurturing atmosphere. The danger  is that your jovial  presence  may prompt  others 
not to take you as seriously  as you  would  like.
Alert: It’s likely that very few  aspects  of a problem escape you. By remaining vigilant and aware of what  is 
going on, you may often start troubleshooting before others even see a  need for intervention. Of course,  you 
should take care not to become obsessive over minor details.
Eager: Your enthusiasm can  be contagious.  You  may even inspire  others to action while you create a  
dynamic environment. But  remember that an  overeager style can sometimes  move you ahead  too quickly, 
compromising quality  or forcing you to  overlook a  key  detail.
Critical: You may  embrace  a take-no-prisoners attitude, which  serves you  and your  organization well when  
brutal honesty is the only way  to keep things on  track or to filter out misguided projects. However,  you 
should take care that  your criticism isn’t insensitive to  others.
Discontented: Feeling  discontented can  be the impetus for seeking great accomplishments or  impressive 
results. Too much  of this element,  though,  can lead  others  to see you as merely negative.
Fidgety: Multitasking goes hand-in hand  with a fidgety  nature.  This trait can come in handy when balancing  
many different  projects. The downside is that such a  predisposition can cause trouble when focusing  on one 
issue at a time.
Impetuous: This  means that you  often decide quickly on a  course of action. In a work  setting, such 
decisiveness is welcome when confronting  tough issues. However, it can backfire if you make a decision  too 
quickly or before you have all the  information  you need.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 9Stage II: Your Intensity  Index Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
C Dimension
People with your score on  the C Dimension may be generally described by the following  adjectives. Circle 
those that you see  as your strengths and highlight  potential areas of challenge.
Restrained:  Holding your  tongue  and refraining from criticism may be your default behavior. By avoiding  
condemnation, you may encourage openness and innovation. Still, showing too much restraint  allows 
tension to go unresolved between you and  your colleagues.
High standards:  Inferior  work or  half-hearted efforts  often frustrate  you, so you  may set  imposing goals for 
yourself and others. Such endeavors  may inspire you  and your colleagues to  greater heights.  On the  other 
hand, holding onto unrealistically high expectations for performance can cause  anxiety  and animosity 
among team  members.
Analytical:  You  may approach assignments  with a  cool  logic that calculates  every detail or  possible 
outcome. Favoring reason over gut instinct has the  advantage  of eliminating haphazard solutions. It 
becomes a drawback, however,  when  it is allowed to minimize  creativity.
Sensitive:  This trait  is a strength when it allows you to  get  in touch with the intricacies and nuances  of a  
project. It becomes a weakness  if you  get flustered  over  petty difficulties or  obstacles.
Mature:  To use  your experience and wisdom to solve complex problems is an excellent application of this 
quality. Bear  in mind,  however, that reliance on your experience can backfire if you close your mind to  new 
ideas.
Evasive:  This means that you often stay  out  of personality conflicts or infighting, which  is to your benefit. 
Being too vague, however, can lead to communication breakdowns or questions  about your credibility.
“Own person”:  You may often stand up for yourself and feel  confident in expressing your opinions. While 
these are clear strengths,  it is important to remember that even the most  independent  of people still require  
positive interactions  with others on the  job.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 10Stage III: Your  Classical Profile Pattern Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
The way in which  a person’s four dimensions of Dominance, Influence, Steadiness, and Conscientiousness 
combine creates a  profile pattern that is different for each  combination. Research  has discovered  15 unique 
patterns that most commonly  occur. Additional  theoretical  and clinical research then helped  develop 
descriptions for each “classical profile”  pattern to  help individuals  understand and describe  their styles.
Respondent,  your Classical Profile Pattern is the Appraiser Pattern. Please read  the description  below  and 
highlight those  areas  that most closely  match the way  you see yourself.
Appraiser Pattern
Respondent’s Motivation
As an Appraiser,  Respondent, you may have a strong  drive  to be successful and appear  accomplished. You 
often want  to be appreciated and have your victories acknowledged. So reaching  your goals,  while 
important, may  not be  enough. You  may also want success with flair and  triumph  with style.
You usually find a way to get things done, but you  tend to work  best when you  are part of a well-balanced 
team. To persuade  others  to join  your  cause,  you will patiently explain what you are  trying to accomplish and 
why. You will rarely strong-arm people  into helping  you. Indeed, you  are usually  very considerate of others.  
Your colleagues  often  view you as  assertive,  but  you tend not to provoke strong negative  reactions because 
you do  not usually come across  as aggressive or insistent.
In all likelihood,  you are  a very good critical thinker. This skill melds well with your tendency to employ  direct 
methods to get the  results  you desire.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 11Stage III: Your  Classical Profile Pattern Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Respondent’s Work Habits
It is not uncommon for you to draw up a detailed action plan when  you approach a project. You most often  
focus on methods and  procedures, and you  probably prefer an orderly system and step-by-step progress 
toward your  goals.
Such an approach  does not mean that you  ignore subtlety and creativity.  In fact,  you usually  appreciate 
original thinking, but you love the  practical  uses of innovation even  more. For you, a clever  theory often is 
not good enough, because  you want grand ideas to  lead to concrete results.
Once a plan is in  place, you will usually  make  sure  that  everybody is on board.  You are unlikely to go around 
issuing stringent commands or  making snippy comments,  as the importance of teamwork tends to be of high  
value to you. Therefore, your strategy will often be  to help others visualize  the  steps and goals of a  project. 
You want your colleagues to  feel involved and work together  toward  impressive accomplishments.
You frequently judge others by their ability to  initiate  activities. In this way, you may encourage friendly  
rivalry among  team members to keep them focused. You believe that competition  is often a great method  for 
bringing out  the best in your colleagues.
You tend  to be quite competitive yourself, but  you  seldom get  worked up  to the point of belligerence  or 
taunting behavior.  You are more likely to become restless or impatient if progress stalls. Similarly,  if 
standards are not maintained or if extensive follow-up work is needed,  you may let your frustration show.
Under such circumstances, you  can become authoritarian or even caustic, especially when giving  criticism to 
your colleagues. However, because you  have such a  strong drive to succeed and are usually polite  at all other 
times, you will most likely  remain a valuable team member.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 12Stage III: Your  Classical Profile Pattern Section I
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Insights for Respondent
An eagerness to win and a desire to  look good are twin factors that tend to  drive you onward. Because you 
are fond of employing teamwork to  accomplish your goals, you  use courtesy to  your advantage, although 
you do  not shy away  from being assertive if necessary.
Despite your  fondness  for a team atmosphere, you  probably still crave authority over a project or situation.  
Ironically, this quest for control would be more  successful if you just relaxed a bit. Similarly, you  may often  
indulge your ingenuity to the point that your  solutions  are more clever  than useful. Tempering  this drive  
could increase your productivity,  as could maintaining a steady pace  rather  than  engaging in bursts of 
activity.
Furthermore, you may need to work on individual follow-through. You tend to dislike the necessity of seeing 
things through to the end, because you  often  look  forward to the  next challenge or project before the  
previous one is finished. However,  sticking  with an endeavor all the way through  can be of great  benefit  to 
you.
Because you are likely such a good team player, your lapses  in social  graces are infrequent. Your  chief flaw in  
this area could be that you may  not display empathy when expressing disapproval. You may find it helpful  to 
think through your criticism  before  issuing  it.
You often  fear failure, which can  take  the form of falling  short of a project’s goals or simply  earning the 
disapproval of others.  It may therefore be  helpful  for you to remember that you can’t win them all.  Although 
this may be difficult to admit for someone  with such  high  standards, it may help you focus on those projects 
that matter most.
Respondent, you  tend  to be an efficient  and considerate person with whom others  enjoy collaborating.
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 13The DiSC Model Section  II
DiSC® Classic 2.0
DiSC Classic is based  on a four-quadrant model  that reliably describes four styles of human behavior: Dominance (D), 
Influence (i),  Steadiness (S), and Conscientiousness (C). Some people  fall into one style, others  fall into two, and  some  
may fall into  three.
How is your  DiSC  style different from the other DiSC styles? What do you have in  common  with the  other  DiSC styles? 
The DiSC  model  explained here will help you understand these important questions. In the square below,  each DiSC 
style has something in common with the styles that are  next to it. You can see  that the C and S styles tend to perceive 
themselves as  less powerful than their environment. That is, they may be more  inclined  to adapt their surroundings 
because they feel that they have little direct control over them. On  the other hand, the D and i styles tend to perceive 
themselves as  more powerful than their environment. That is, they may be more  assertive because they  feel  they  have 
more control over their surroundings. In addition,  the D and C styles tend to  perceive their environment  as unfavorable 
(or unwelcoming and resistant), and the i  and S styles tend to view  their environment as favorable (or friendly  and  
supportive).
The illustration below  elaborates on the DiSC  model. It describes the four styles in a way that is more  observable and  
behavioral. You will notice that  while the C  and S styles are both thoughtful  and moderate paced, the D and i  styles are  
more active  and fast paced.  In addition, the D and C styles tend to  be questioning and  logic focused, but the i and  S 
styles tend to be more accepting and people  focused.Di
CSPerceives Self  as More Powerful 
than  the 
Environment
Perceives  
Environment as 
Favorable
Perceives Self as Less  Powerful 
than  the 
EnvironmentPerceives  
Environment as 
Unfavorable
Di
CSActive
Fast Paced
Assertive
Bold
Accepting
People Focused
Receptive
Agreeable
Thoughtful
Moderate Paced
Calm
CarefulQuestioning
Logic Focused
Skeptical
Challenging
Thoughtful
Moderate Paced
Calm
Careful
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 14The DiSC Model Section  II
DiSC® Classic 2.0
The table  below gives  an overview of all four DiSC® dimensions.  Read all the dimension  descriptions  to better 
understand others who are like and  unlike you.
D  DOMINANCE i  INFLUENCE
Emphasis is on shaping  the environment  by
overcoming opposition to accomplish results.Emphasis is on shaping  the environment  by
influencing or persuading others.
DESCRIPTION
This person’s tendencies include
• getting immediate results
• causing action
• accepting challenges
• making quick  decisions
• questioning the status quo
• taking authority
• managing  trouble
• solving problemsACTION PLAN
This person needs others who
• weigh pros and cons
• calculate  risks
• use caution
• structure a predictable 
environment
• research facts
• deliberate before deciding
• recognize  the needs of  othersDESCRIPTION
This person’s tendencies include 
• contacting people
• making a favorable  impression
• being articulate
• creating a motivational 
environment
• generating  enthusiasm
• entertaining people
• viewing people  and situations 
with optimism
• participating in a groupACTION PLAN
This person needs others who
■ concentrate on the task
■ seek facts
■ speak directly
■ respect sincerity
■ develop systematic approaches
■ prefer  to deal with things 
instead of people
■ take  a logical approach
■ demonstrate individual follow-
through
This person desires an environment 
that includes
• power  and authority
• prestige and challenge
• opportunities for individual 
accomplishments
• wide scope of operations
• direct answers
• opportunities for advancement
• freedom  from controls and 
supervision
• many new  and varied activitiesTo be  more effective, this person  
needs
• to receive  difficult assignments
• to understand that  they need 
people
• to base  techniques  on practical 
experience
• to receive  an occasional shock
• to identify with a group
• to verbalize reasons for 
conclusions
• to be aware  of existing sanctions
• to pace self and to  relax moreThis person desires an environment 
that includes
• popularity, social recognition
• public recognition of  ability
• freedom  of expression
• group activities outside  of the 
job
• democratic relationships
• freedom  from control and detail
• opportunities to verbalize 
proposals
• coaching  and counseling
• favorable working  conditionsTo be  more effective, this 
person needs
■ to control time,  if D or S is low
■ to make objective decisions
■ to use hands-on management
■ to be more  realistic appraising 
others
■ to make priorities and deadlines
■ to be more  firm with  others,  if D 
is low
C  CONSCIENTIOUSNESS S  STEADINESS
Emphasis  is on working conscientiously within
existing circumstances  to ensure quality  and  accuracy.Emphasis is on cooperating with others within existing  
circumstances to carry out the task.
DESCRIPTION
This person’s tendencies include
• adhering to key directives  and 
standards
• concentrating on key details
• thinking  analytically, weighing  
pros and cons
• being diplomatic with  people
• using subtle or indirect  
approaches to conflict
• checking for accuracy
• analyzing performance  critically
• using a systematic  approach  to 
situations or activitiesACTION PLAN
This person needs others who
• delegate important tasks
• make  quick decisions
• use policies only as guidelines
• compromise with the  opposition
• state unpopular positions
• initiate and facilitate discussions
• encourage teamworkDESCRIPTION
This person’s tendencies include
• performing in a consistent, 
predictable manner
• demonstrating patience
• developing specialized skills
• helping others
• showing loyalty
• being a good listener
• handling excited people
• creating a stable, harmonious 
work environmentACTION PLAN
This person needs others who
■ react quickly to unexpected 
change
■ stretch toward the challenges of 
accepted tasks
■ become involved in more than 
one thing
■ are self-promoting
■ apply pressure on others
■ work comfortably in an  
unpredictable environment
■ help prioritize  work
■ are flexible in work procedures
This person desires an environment 
that includes
• clearly defined performance 
expectations
• values  on quality and  accuracy
• reserved, business-like  
atmosphere
• opportunities to demonstrate  
expertise
• control over those factors that 
affect their  performance
• opportunity to ask “why” 
questions
• recognition for specific skills and 
accomplishmentsTo be  more effective, this person  
needs
• to plan  carefully
• to know exact job descriptions  
and performance  objectives
• to schedule performance 
appraisals
• to receive  specific feedback on 
performance
• to respect  people’s personal 
worth as much  as their  
accomplishments
• to develop tolerance for conflict  This person desires an environment 
that includes
• maintenance of  the status  quo  
unless given reasons  for change
• predictable routines
• credit for work accomplished
• minimal work infringement on 
home life
• sincere appreciation
• identification with a group
• standard  operating procedures
• minimal conflictTo be  more effective, this 
person needs
■ to be conditioned  prior to 
change
■ to validate  self-worth
■ to know how  personal effort 
contributes to the group effort
■ to have colleagues of similar 
competence and sincerity
■ to know task guidelines
■ to have creativity encouraged
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 15The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
On the following pages are descriptions of  all 15 Classical Profile Patterns, each portraying the  behavior of 
people with a specific blend of the  four DiSC® dimensions.
Achiever
PatternEmotions: is industrious and diligent; displays 
frustration
Goal: personal accomplishments, sometimes at the 
expense of the group’s goal
Judges others  by: ability  to achieve concrete 
results
Influences others by: accountability for own work
Value to the organization: sets and completes key 
result areas for  self
Overuses: reliance on self; absorption in the task
Under Pressure: becomes frustrated and 
impatient;  becomes more of  a "do-er" and  less  of a 
"delegator"
Fears: others with competing or inferior work 
standards affecting  results
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
reduction of "either-or" thinking;  clarity of  task 
priority; consideration  of optional  approaches; 
willingness to compromise  short-term for long-
range benefitsThe motivation  of Achievers  is largely  internal and flows from 
deeply felt personal  goals. Their  commitment  to their own  
goals precludes an automatic acceptance  of the group’s goals.  
Achievers need to see how they can blend their personal goals 
with the organization’s goals. By retaining control  over  the 
direction of their  lives, Achievers  develop a  strong sense  of 
accountability.
Achievers demonstrate a keen interest in  their work and an 
intense, continual pursuit of  accomplishment. They  have  a 
high opinion of their work and under pressure may hesitate to 
delegate tasks.  Instead, they  take on the work themselves  to 
ensure that things are done right. When they  delegate,  they 
have a tendency to take back  the task if it does  not go 
according to their expectations. Their  guiding  premise  is, "If I 
succeed, I  want the credit, and if I fail, I will take the blame."
An Achiever should communicate  more with  others  to expand 
their thinking  beyond either "I have to do it myself" or "I want  
all the credit." They may need assistance  to find  new 
approaches for achieving their desired results. Achievers  
function at peak efficiency, and they expect recognition  equal 
to their contribution -- high  wages in profit organizations  and 
leadership positions in other  groups.
Agent
PatternEmotions: accepts  affection; rejects aggression
 
Goal: group acceptance
Judges others  by: commitment  to tolerate and 
include everyone
Influences others by: empathy;  friendship
Value to the organization: supports, harmonizes, 
empathizes; focuses on  service
Overuses: kindness
Under Pressure: becomes persuasive, using  
information or key  friendships if necessary
Fears: dissension; conflict
Would increase effectiveness with  more: strength 
in the  realization  of who they are and what they  can 
do; firmness and  self-assertion; ability  to say "no"  
when appropriateAgents are  attentive to both the human relations and task 
aspects of their  work situation. Empathetic and supportive, 
they are good  listeners and known for their willing  ear. Agents 
make people  feel  wanted and  needed. Because Agents 
respond to others’ needs, people do not fear being rejected by  
Agents. Agents  offer friendship and are willing  to perform 
services for others.
Agents have  excellent potential for  effectively organizing and  
completing tasks.  Agents naturally promote harmony and  
teamwork and are particularly  good  at doing for others what 
they find  difficult to do for themselves.
Agents fear conflict and dissension.  Their supportive  approach 
may enable  others tolerate a situation, rather than 
encouraging them  in active problem-solving. In addition,  the 
Agent’s tendency to adopt  a "low" profile  -- instead of having 
open confrontations with aggressive individuals -- may  be 
perceived as  a lack of "toughness."  Although they are 
concerned with fitting into the group, Agents  have  a fair degree  
of independence.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 16The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Appraiser
PatternEmotions: is driven to look good
Goal: "victory" with flair
Judges others  by: ability  to initiate activities
Influences others by: competitive  recognition
Value to the organization: accomplishes goals 
with the team
Overuses: authority; ingenuity
Under Pressure: becomes restless, critical, 
impatient
Fears: "loss" or "failure"; others’ disapproval
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
individual  follow-through; empathy when  showing  
disapproval; steadier paceAppraisers make creative ideas serve  practical purposes. They  
use direct methods to accomplish results. Appraisers are 
competitive, but  other people tend to view Appraisers as 
assertive rather than  aggressive because Appraisers are 
considerate of  others. Instead  of giving  orders or commands, 
Appraisers involve people in the task through persuasion.  They 
elicit the cooperation of those around them by explaining the 
rationale of the  proposed  activities.
Appraisers help others visualize  the steps that are necessary to  
accomplish results. Appraisers usually speak from  a detailed  
plan of action that  they have developed to ensure an orderly  
progression toward  results.  In their eagerness to  win, 
Appraisers can become impatient when their standards are not 
maintained or when extensive follow-through is required.
Appraisers are good critical thinkers. They are verbal in their 
criticisms, and their words  occasionally may be caustic. 
Appraisers have  better control  of the situation if they  relax and 
pace themselves. A  helpful axiom  to achieve this is, "You  win 
some and  you lose some."
Counselor
PatternEmotions: being approachable; showing affection 
and understanding
Goal: friendship;  happiness
Judges others  by: positive acceptance of others;  
ability to look for the good in people
Influences others by: personal relationships; 
"open door" policy
Value to the organization: remaining  stable and 
predictable; developing a wide range of friendships; 
listening to others’ feelings
Overuses: indirect approach; tolerance
Under Pressure: becomes overly  flexible and 
intimate; is too trusting without  differentiating 
among people
Fears: pressuring  people; being accused of  causing 
harm
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
attention to realistic deadlines; initiative to 
complete the taskCounselors are particularly effective in solving people 
problems. They  impress others with their warmth, empathy, 
and understanding. Their  optimism makes it easy  to look  for 
the good in others. Counselors prefer to deal with others  by 
building long-standing relationships. As a  good listener  with a 
willing ear for  problems, a Counselor  offers suggestions  gently  
and refrains  from imposing  his or her ideas on others.
Counselors tend  to be overly tolerant and patient  with non-
producers. Under pressure, they may have difficulty 
confronting performance problems.  Counselors may be 
indirect when issuing orders, making demands, or disciplining 
others. By adopting the attitude  that "people are important," 
Counselors may place less emphasis on task accomplishment.  
They sometimes  require assistance to set and meet realistic 
deadlines.
Counselors often take criticism as  a personal affront, but they 
respond well to  attention and  compliments for  completed 
assignments. When in a position  of responsibility, Counselors  
tend to  be attentive to the quality  of working conditions  and 
provide adequate recognition for members of their group.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 17The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Creative
PatternEmotions: accepts  aggression; restrains expression
Goal: dominance;  unique accomplishments
Judges others  by: personal standards; progressive 
ideas for accomplishing tasks
Influences others by: ability  to pace  development 
of systems  and innovative approaches
Value to the organization: initiates or designs 
changes
Overuses: bluntness; critical or condescending 
attitude
Under Pressure: becomes bored with routine 
work; sulks when  restrained; acts independently
Fears: lack of  influence; failure  to achieve  their  
standards
Would increase effectiveness with  more: warmth; 
tactful communication; effective team  cooperation; 
recognition of existing sanctionsPersons with a  Creative Pattern display opposite forces in their 
behavior. Their  desire for tangible results is  counterbalanced 
by an equally strong  drive for  perfection and their 
aggressiveness is tempered by sensitivity. Although they  think 
and react quickly, they are restrained by the wish to explore  all 
possible solutions before making a decision.
Creative persons exhibit foresight  when focusing on projects, 
and they bring about change.  Since individuals with  a Creative 
Pattern have a drive for perfection and demonstrate 
considerable planning ability, the changes they  make are likely 
to be sound, but the method may lack  attention to  
interpersonal relationships.
Creative persons want freedom to explore, and they want the 
authority to examine and retest findings. They  can make daily 
decisions quickly but may be  extremely cautious when making 
bigger decisions:  "Should I  take that  promotion?" "Should I 
move to another  location?" In their  drive for results  and  
perfection, Creative persons may not be concerned about  
social poise. As a result, they may  be cool, aloof, or blunt.
Developer
PatternEmotions: is concerned with  meeting personal 
needs
Goal: new opportunities
Judges others  by: ability  to meet the Developer’s 
standards
Influences others by: pursuit of solutions for 
problems; projection  of personal  sense  of power
Value to the organization: avoids  "passing  the 
buck"; seeks  new or innovative problem-solving 
methods
Overuses: control over people and situations to  
accomplish his or her own  results
Under Pressure: works alone to complete tasks; is  
belligerent if individualism is threatened or 
challenging opportunities disappear
Fears: boredom;  loss of control
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
patience, empathy; participation and collaboration 
with others; follow-through  and attention to quality  
controlDevelopers tend  to be  strong-willed individuals, continually 
seeking new horizons. As self-reliant,  independent thinkers, 
they prefer to find  their own solutions.  Relatively free  of the 
constraining influence of the group, Developers are able  to 
bypass convention  and often create innovative solutions.
While they most  often use direct,  forceful behavior, Developers 
can also  shrewdly manipulate people and situations. When 
required to participate with others  in situations that limit their  
individualism, Developers are apt  to become belligerent. They 
are persistent  when pursuing the results they desire and  will 
do whatever is necessary to overcome obstacles  to success. In 
addition, they have  high  expectations of others  and can  be 
critical when their  standards  are  not met.
Developers are most interested in achieving their own goals.  
Opportunities for  advancement and challenge are important  
to them. By focusing on  results, they may lack empathy  or 
seem uncaring by dismissing  others’  concerns.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 18The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Inspirational
PatternEmotions: accepts  aggression; downplays  need for 
affection
Goal: control of their environment or audience
Judges others  by: projection of personal strength, 
character, and social power
Influences others by: charm, direction,  
intimidation; use of rewards
Value to the organization: acts  as a "people  
mover"; initiates,  demands,  compliments, 
disciplines
Overuses: attitude that  "the ends justify the 
means"
Under Pressure: becomes manipulative, 
quarrelsome, or belligerent
Fears: weak behavior; loss of  social status
Would increase effectiveness with  more: genuine  
sensitivity; willingness to help  others succeed in 
their own personal  developmentPersons with the Inspirational Pattern consciously attempt  to 
modify the  thoughts and actions  of others. They  want to  
control their environment.  They are astute at identifying  and 
manipulating an individual’s existing  motives in order to  direct 
that person’s behavior  toward a predetermined end.
Inspirational persons are clear about  the results they want, but 
they do not always immediately verbalize them.  They 
introduce the results  they want only after they have  primed the 
other person, offering friendship to those who desire 
acceptance, authority to those who seek power,  and security 
to those who want  a predictable environment.
Inspirational persons can be  charming in their interactions. 
They are persuasive  when obtaining assistance for repetitive 
and time-consuming details.  People often  experience a  
conflicting sensation  by feeling drawn to  Inspirational  people 
and yet being curiously distanced. Others may feel "used" by  
Inspirational persons’ manipulation powers. While  they 
sometimes inspire fear in others and override their  decisions,  
Inspirational persons are generally  well-liked by  co-workers 
because they use  their considerable  verbal skills  to persuade 
others whenever possible. Inspirational persons clearly prefer  
to accomplish goals through  cooperation  and  persuasion, not 
domination.
Investigator
PatternEmotions: is dispassionate; demonstrates self-
discipline
Goal: power  through formal  roles and  positions of 
authority
Judges others  by: use  of factual  information
Influences others by: determination, tenacity
Value to the organization: offers comprehensive 
follow-through; works determinedly  on tasks  
individually or in a small group
Overuses: bluntness; suspicion of  others
Under Pressure: tends  to internalize conflict; holds  
on to grudges
Fears: involvement with the masses;  responsibility 
to sell abstract ideas
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
flexibility;  acceptance of others;  personal 
involvement with othersObjective and  analytical, Investigators are dispassionate 
"anchors of reality." Generally undemonstrative, they  calmly 
and steadily pursue an independent path toward a  fixed goal. 
Investigators are successful at many  things,  not because of 
versatility but  due  to their dogged determination to  follow 
through. They seek a clear purpose or goal from  which they 
can develop an orderly plan  and organize their actions. Once a 
project has begun, Investigators fight tenaciously to  achieve  
their objectives. Intervention  is sometimes necessary to  
change their direction.  As a result,  they can be perceived as 
stubborn and  opinionated.
Investigators do well with  challenging technical assignments  in 
which they  can use actual  data to interpret the information  
and draw conclusions. They  respond  to logic rather  than 
emotion. When selling or marketing an idea, they are most 
successful with  a concrete  product.
Investigators are not  especially interested  in pleasing people 
and prefer to work  alone. They can be  perceived as cold,  blunt,  
and tactless.  Because they  value their own thinking  ability, 
Investigators evaluate others by how they use facts and logic. 
To increase their effectiveness in personal interactions,  they 
need to develop a greater understanding of other  people,  
especially others’ emotions.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 19The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Objective  Thinker
PatternEmotions: rejects interpersonal aggression
Goal: correctness
Judges others  by: ability  to think  logically
Influences others by: use  of facts, data,  and logical  
arguments 
Value to the organization: defines and clarifies; 
obtains, evaluates, and  tests  information
Overuses: analysis 
Under Pressure: becomes worrisome
Fears: irrational acts;  ridicule
Would increase effectiveness with  more: self-
disclosure; public discussion  of their  insights and 
opinionsObjective Thinkers tend to have highly developed critical  
thinking abilities. They emphasize  the importance of facts 
when drawing conclusions and planning actions, and they seek 
correctness and accuracy  in everything they do. To  manage 
their work activities effectively, Objective Thinkers often 
combine intuitive  information with  the facts they have 
gathered. When they are  in doubt about a course  of action,  
they avoid public failure by preparing meticulously. For 
example, Objective Thinkers will master a  new skill privately 
before they use  it in a group activity.
Objective Thinkers prefer to work with people who,  like 
themselves, are interested in maintaining a  peaceful  work 
environment. Considered  shy by some,  they may be reticent in 
expressing their feelings. They are particularly uncomfortable  
with aggressive people. Despite being mild-mannered, 
Objective Thinkers have a strong  need to  control their  
environment. They tend  to exert this control indirectly  by 
requiring others to adhere to rules and standards.
Objective Thinkers are concerned  with the "right" answer  and 
may have  trouble  making decisions in ambiguous situations. 
With their tendency to worry, they may get  bogged down in  
"analysis paralysis." When  they  make a  mistake, Objective 
Thinkers often hesitate  to acknowledge  it. Instead, they 
immerse themselves in a search  for information that supports 
their position.
Perfectionist
PatternEmotions: displays  competence; is restrained and 
cautious
Goal: stability;  predictable accomplishments
Judges others  by: precise standards
Influences others by: attention to detail; accuracy
Value to the organization: is conscientious; 
maintains standards; controls  quality
Overuses: procedures and "fail-safe"  controls; 
overdependence on people,  products, and 
processes that  have worked  in the past
Under Pressure: becomes tactful and  diplomatic
Fears: antagonism
Would increase effectiveness with  more: role  
flexibility; independence and  interdependence; 
belief in self-worthPerfectionists are systematic, precise thinkers and  workers  
who follow procedure in both their personal and work lives. 
Extremely conscientious, they  are diligent  in work  that requires 
attention to detail and accuracy. Because they  desire stable 
conditions and  predictable activities, Perfectionists are  most 
comfortable in  a clearly defined work  environment. They want 
specifics on work  expectations,  time requirements, and 
evaluation procedures.
Perfectionists may bog down in the details of the decision-
making process. They can make major decisions but may be 
criticized for  the amount of  time they take to  gather and  
analyze information. Although they like to hear the opinions of 
their managers,  Perfectionists take risks when they  have facts 
that they can interpret and use  to draw  conclusions.
Perfectionists evaluate themselves  and others by precise  
standards for achieving concrete results while  adhering to 
standard operating  procedures. This conscientious attention 
to standards  and  quality is valuable to the  organization.  
Perfectionists may define  their worth  too much  by what they 
do and not by who they are  as people. As a  result,  they tend to 
react to personal compliments by thinking, "What does  this 
person want?" By accepting sincere compliments,  
Perfectionists can increase their  self-confidence.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 20The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Persuader
PatternEmotions: trusts  others; is enthusiastic
Goal: authority and prestige;  status  symbols
Judges others  by: ability  to verbalize; flexibility
Influences others by: friendly, open manner; 
verbal adeptness
Value to the organization: sells and closes; 
delegates responsibility; is poised and  confident
Overuses: enthusiasm; selling  ability; optimism
Under Pressure: becomes indecisive and is easily 
persuaded; becomes organized to look  good
Fears: fixed environment; complex  relationships
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
challenging assignments; attention to task-directed 
service and key details; objective  data analysisPersuaders work  with people, striving to  be friendly while  
pushing forward their own objectives.  Outgoing and interested 
in people, Persuaders have the ability  to gain the respect and 
confidence of various types  of people. Persuaders can impress 
their thoughts on others,  drawing people  to them and 
retaining them as clients or friends. This  ability is particularly 
helpful when Persuaders sell themselves or  their  ideas  to win 
positions of  authority.
The most  favorable  environment  for Persuaders includes 
working with people, receiving challenging assignments,  and 
experiencing a variety of work  activities  that  require mobility.  
They seek work assignments  that  will give them the 
opportunity to look good. As a result of their natural positive 
outlook, Persuaders may  be too optimistic  about a  project’s 
results and others’ potential.  Persuaders also  tend  to over-
estimate their ability  to change the behavior of others.
While Persuaders desire  freedom from routine and  
regimentation, they do need to receive analytical data on a 
systematic basis. Once  alerted to the importance of the "little  
things," Persuaders  can use the information to  balance their  
enthusiasm with  a realistic assessment  of the situation.
Practitioner
PatternEmotions: wants to keep up with others in  effort 
and technical performance
Goal: personal growth
Judges others  by: self-discipline; position and 
promotions
Influences others by: confidence  in their ability to 
master new skills;  development of  "proper" 
procedures and actions
Value to the organization: is skilled in technical 
and  people problem-solving; displays proficiency 
and specialization
Overuses: overattention  to personal objectives;  
unrealistic expectations of others
Under Pressure: becomes restrained; is sensitive 
to criticism
Fears: predictability; no recognition as an "expert"
Would increase effectiveness with  more: genuine  
collaboration for common benefit; delegation of 
key tasks to appropriate individualsPractitioners value  proficiency  in specialized areas. Spurred by 
a desire to be  "good at something," they  carefully  monitor  
their own work  performance. Although their aim is to  be "the"  
expert in an area, Practitioners frequently  give the impression 
that they know something  about  everything.  This image is 
particularly strong when they  verbalize their knowledge on a 
variety of subjects.
As Practitioners interact with others,  they project a  relaxed, 
diplomatic, and easygoing style. This congenial attitude may 
change quickly in their own work area  when they become 
intensely focused in order to meet  high standards for 
performance. Because they value self-discipline, Practitioners 
evaluate others  on the basis of their ability to focus on daily 
performance. They have high  expectations of themselves and 
others, and they  tend to verbalize their disappointment.
While they naturally  concentrate on developing an organized 
approach to work  and increasing their own  skills, Practitioners 
also need to help others  build skills. In addition,  they need  to 
increase their appreciation of those who contribute to the 
work effort even  though they  may not use the Practitioner’s 
preferred methods.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 21The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Promoter
PatternEmotions: is willing to accept others
Goal: approval, popularity
Judges others  by: verbal skills
Influences others by: praise,  opportunities, favors
Value to the organization: relieves tension; 
promotes projects and people,  including him  or 
herself
Overuses: praise, optimism
Under Pressure: becomes careless and 
sentimental; is disorganized
Fears: loss of social acceptance  and self-worth
Would increase effectiveness with  more: control 
of time; objectivity;  sense of urgency;  emotional 
control;  follow-through on promises, tasksPromoters have an extensive network of contacts. They  are 
usually gregarious and socially adept, and they  develop 
friendships easily. They rarely  antagonize others intentionally. 
Promoters seek favorable social environments where they can 
develop and maintain  their contacts.  Verbally skilled,  they 
promote their own  ideas and  create enthusiasm for others’  
projects. With  their  wide  range  of contacts, Promoters  have 
access to the people who  can help  them.
Since Promoters prefer to participate and interact  with  others 
in activities, they  may be less interested in task 
accomplishment. They may continue  to seek out any  situation 
that involves meeting people and socializing,  even  though  
their job requires attention to more solitary activities. They 
thrive on meetings, committees, and conferences.
Usually optimistic,  Promoters tend to overestimate  the ability 
of others. They  often leap to favorable conclusions without 
considering all the facts. Promoters will learn to be objective 
and emphasize results with coaching and  direction. Time 
management may present challenges for Promoters. By setting 
a time  limit  on conversation and discussion, they  can remind 
themselves of the urgency of "closing" and accomplishing the 
task.
Result-Oriented
PatternEmotions: verbalizes ego strength;  displays rugged 
individualism
Goal: dominance and independence
Judges others  by: ability  to accomplish the task 
quickly
Influences others by: force  of character; 
persistence
Value to the organization: persistence; 
doggedness
Overuses: impatience;  win-lose  competition
Under Pressure: becomes critical and fault-
finding;  resists participating with a team; may  
overstep boundaries
Fears: others will take  advantage of  them; 
slowness, especially in task activities;  being a  
pushover
Would increase effectiveness with  more: 
verbalization of their reasoning;  consideration  of 
other views and ideas about goals  and problem 
solutions; genuine concern for  others; patience  and  
humilityResult-Oriented people display self-confidence, which some 
may interpret  as arrogance.  They actively seek opportunities  
that test and develop their abilities to accomplish results.  
Result-Oriented persons like difficult tasks, competitive 
situations, unique  assignments,  and  "important" positions. 
They undertake responsibilities with an air of  self-importance  
and display self-satisfaction once they  have  finished.
Result-Oriented people tend to avoid  constraining factors, 
such as direct controls, time-consuming details, and routine 
work. Because they are  forceful and direct, they  may have 
difficulties with  others. Result-Oriented people prize their 
independence and  may become  restless when involved with 
group activities or committee work. Although Result-Oriented 
people generally prefer to work alone, they may persuade 
others to  support their efforts,  especially when completing 
routine activities.
Result-Oriented people are quick-thinkers,  and  they are 
impatient and fault-finding with  those who are not. They  
evaluate others  on their ability  to get results. Result-Oriented 
people are determined and  persistent  even in  the face of 
antagonism. They take command  of the situation when 
necessary, whether or not they  are in charge. In their  
uncompromising drive for results, they  may  appear blunt and 
uncaring.ExampleExample
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 22The Classical Profile Patterns Section III
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Specialist
PatternEmotions: is calculatingly  moderate;  
accommodates others
Goal: maintenance of the status quo; controlled 
environment
Judges others  by: friendship  standards; 
competence
Influences others by: consistent  performance; 
accommodation of others
Value to the organization: plans short term; is 
predictable, consistent; maintains steady pace
Overuses: modesty;  low risk-taking;  passive  
resistance to  innovation
Under Pressure: becomes adaptable to those in  
authority and thinks with the group
Fears: change, disorganization
Would increase effectiveness with  more: public 
discussion of their ideas; self-confidence based on 
feedback; shortcut  methodsSpecialists "wear  well"  with others. With their  moderate, 
controlled stance  and modest demeanor, they  are able to  work 
well with  a number  of behavioral styles. Specialists are 
considerate, patient, and always willing to  help those they 
consider friends. They build close  relationships with a  
relatively small group of  associates in the work environment.
Their efforts are directed toward retaining  familiar and 
predictable patterns. Most effective in specialized areas, 
Specialists plan their work along  directed channels  and  
achieve a remarkably consistent  performance. Appreciation  
from others helps to maintain that level of consistency.
Specialists are slow  to adapt to change. Prior conditioning 
gives them  time to change their  procedures  while  maintaining 
a consistent  level of performance. Specialists may also require 
help when  starting new projects and in  developing shortcut 
methods to meet deadlines. Finished projects are  often put 
aside for further  revisions. Specialists  should consider  
throwing away old  files that have outlived their usefulness.Example
© 2003 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  All rights  reserved.
Reproduction in any form, in whole or in part,  is prohibited. Respondent Name 23Scoring and Data  Analysis Section IV
DiSC® Classic 2.0
Here is a summary that shows how your  personal report was generated. Graph  III is the result of combining 
your "Most" choices  with  your "Least" choices  and is used to determine  your highest  DiSC dimension, your  
Intensity Index scores, and your Classical Profile Pattern.  If you  would like  more information  about how your 
personal report was built, please talk  to your facilitator.
Name:  Respondent  Name
Date:  7/18/2007
SUMMARY OF INTERPRETATION
Highest DiSC  Dimension(s): Influence (i)
Classical Pattern: Appraiser Pattern
Segment Numbers:  3635
